Hello and welcome to the
Iterators and Generators section of this course.
So in this section of the course, we'll be learning
the difference between iteration and generation.
We'll get started with a brief presentation on just
the overall ideas of iteration versus generation.
So, like I mentioned, here we're going to be discussing
iteration and generation in Python and how to construct
our own generators with the yield statement.
So we've touched on this topic in the past when discussing
the range function in Python 2 and the similar
Xrange function, with the difference between
range and Xrange was that the Xrange was a generator.
So let's start by creating generators.
We've learned how to create functions with a def
and the return statement.
What generator functions allow us to do is
write a function that can send back a value and then
later resume to pick up right where it left off.
So this type of function is a generator in Python
and allows us to generate a sequence of values over time.
The main difference in syntax that you'll see
is the use of a yield statement
instead of a return statement.
Otherwise, you'll see that a normal function that iterates
versus a generator function will actually look
really similar, the only difference being
the return and the yield statement.
So how do generators work?
In most aspects, a generator function, like I said,
appears super similar to a normal function.
The main difference is when a generator function is compiled
they become an object that supports an iteration protocol.
So that means when they're called in your code,
they don't actually return a value and then exit.
So you can think of range just returned the list,
and then exited.
The generator functions will automatically suspend
and resume their execution, and state around the last point
of value generation.
And the main advantage here is that instead of having
to compute an entire series of values up front,
such as that entire range list,
the generator functions can be suspended,
and this feature is known as state suspension.
And we'll explore that later on
in this section of the course.
So why use generators?
Generators are best for calculating
very large sets of results, particularly in calculations
that involve loops themselves,
in cases where we don't want to allocate the memory
for all the results at the same time,
just as I mentioned back in the range lecture.
And like I mentioned, we've noted before that a lot of the
functions in the Standard Library that return lists
in Python 2, such as range, have been modified to return
generators in Python 3 because generators are a better way
of creating those objects.
So let's go ahead and jump to the live code.